vm is nothing but an infrastructure.
vm is also called as an instance 
on a physical server > if we isolate virtualization then each VM machine has its own cpu own hardware and own memory
means we can utilize the server hardware in very effecieng way
for ex if server has 100Gb memory then in ghat if we install only one app of size 5MB. the remaining resources of the physical HP sever got wasted.
so to fix that ineefeciency problem.
a big leap has evolved that the datacenters have physical servers installed on racks.
each server has hypervysor istalled on them.
so when we reqest the hyper vysor to create a VM manually or automation that takes input and provide VM in return.
so that has IP and keypair to get access virtually.
gaint comapies doing business with this concept of effeciency of resources only.
we can create VMs in on premises server and also on a cloud platform.
cloud platforms:

AWS Ec2
microsoft azure
google GCP
digital ocean

every one has an apis to create VMs and storage and for all the features.
so as an effecient devop eng you cant keep on create vms manually
u will avoid manual force and create automation for tbag by calling tbeir apis
so you can create 100 vms in a single shot

but..
using AWS api
that only happens if our API CALL using boto3-phython module script
is valid- make all sytaxes and coveyed the rquest properly
authenticated- having their login creds
authorized - authorized account to utilize services

using AWS-CLI
using CFT cloud formation templates
AWS CdK- cloud development kit
using terraform for cross cloud platform 

if an organisation is dealing with single cloud platform then better to stick the specific cloud creation ways.
if an org has hybrid cloud platform usage for ex aiand ml gco is mostly used so like that way then terrform is the bestway ti create hybrid cloud vms.


aws console> launch ec2 instance> ceeate an instance> choose the image and os create VM add keypair
then it creates

launching can be possible

using aws CLI instances > instances ID> connect> connect will show CLi but thats manual way

from local terminals there are many moderan terminals to access 

download iTerm-2 terminal for mac 
mobaxterm- we can store up to 10  creds for trail version and up to hundred in paid or putty or nomachine terminals for windows


launch terminal> SSH ubuntu@publicIPinstance

for the very fisrst time it will ask for do uou wabtbyo save login info put YES and run
it will askfor publickey
so give .pem key or identity key  path 
chkod 600 pemfile path 
//to close permisiions and make the key private
SSH -i /users/hi/downloads/test111.pem ubuntu@publicip
loggs in

touch pkankati
ls
lists out pkankati file that means ur logged in.




we can create instance usung aws console
aws cli commands-
install aws cli
aws configure- enter access key and tgen secret access key
create access key in aws account
login then 
ho to aws cli commands documentation for all the services.
---

AWS CLOUFIRMATION TEMPLATES BY CREATING STACK

in github awslabs/awacloudformation temolates/
copy the template and download

aws console-cloudformation-create stack-upload exating template.
AWS api calls using boto-3 

python module to interact with amazon services.




